
Who's Using the Hackerspace? 

Summer at the College is usually a little slower than the Fall / Winter semesters. Sure, there's still lots of action, students coming and going, a full slate of courses, but the surge that greets the Fall semester isn't paralleled by the Summer semester. To that end, the library is a little emptier, the cafeteria a little more sparsely occupied, but students are still here and looking for things to get into. And that's where the Hackerspace is filling a niche over the summer. 

Our super handy, technologically adept, and hacker genius Dixon is staffing the Hackspace over the summer, soon to be joined by Megan, another Research Assistant that'll help students find their way in the space. These two will staff the Hackspace over the summer and keep it up and running over a bunch of hours. So far, the space has been well-occupied; oddly, moreso than it was over this past winter semester when there were more people around. So, what's going on? What's everyone up to?

Well, it starts with our on-going Raspberry Pi project building a minimum viable arcade machine. It took longer than we thought to get some of the equipment delivered, but now that the stuff is here it has attracted the interest of quite a number of students (the pic below is of Dixon (foreground) and two other student hackers making the "tankstick" (a huge joystick we need to take apart and re-assemble) work with the Rasperry Pi). Amazingly, these students (like those in the picture) are spending hours--yes, hours--in the space working through lines of code, messing with wires, and finding their own way. Other students have been coming in wanting to learn about the 3D printers and how they can use them. Students have printed shoes (as models for a class presentation), lots of nerdy trinkets (fidget spinners anyone!?), and some 3D designs of their own (buildings, plant holders, and the like). We've provided some hacks for internet access, found a tool to open a container someone needed opened, demonstrated how an arduino works (and showed what it is), helped students finish off a board-game design. We're working on producing some documentation to explain how things work and how students can participate, and thinking ahead to a few information workshops later in the Summer or in the Fall. In short, we're learning about what students want from the space and the space is getting used; and, every student who comes in often brings another new student when they come back. 

On the peripheries, as defacto lead of the Hackerspace, in the past month I have given a talk about what we're doing with the Hackerspace at the Digital Pedagogies Symposium that met this year at the University of Victoria (in UVic's new Digital Scholarship Commons--another Hacker / Maker / Digital space in the library!), facilitated a tour and provided some consultation to Langara College, who are working on their own Makerspace, and am about to head back to the University of Victoria to speak to the librarians, humanities scholars, and digital archivists at this year's Digital Humanities Summer Institute, where I'll also be doing some training in 3D design for Humanities learning that I can pass on to students.  As well, I'm in the midst of finishing two papers that speak to teaching / research practices / philosophies born out of my own work in the Hackerspace and that feature contributions from the space's Research Assistants.

In short, even though the summer is quieter than other semesters at the College, the Hackerspace continues to chug along. We're gaining some momentum, attracting interest and attention from other institutions, and generally reinforcing the College's moves to encourage hands-on learning, meaningful interactions, and engaged innovation. If you haven't stopped in yet, please feel free, Dixon doesn't bite. In fact, he might just have you building, hacking, or tinkering before you know it. 

The Hackerspace's Summer Hours: 

Monday: 2 - 4:30pmTuesday: 2 - 6pm (sometimes from 10am)Wednesday: 10am - 5:30pmThursday: 11:00am - 6:00pmFriday: 11am - 4:30pm

 

